## 1. Introduction
In this project, we are seeking answers to the question: 

* Does the incorporation of the CBOE Volatility (VIX) index improve performance of Bollinger Band based mean reversion trading strategy? 

To answer the question, we propose two methodologies. 

1. The first explores a multivariate time series: the mean-reverting time series of historical intraday equity (ETF) prices and the intraday VIX index values. 
    - If the linear combination of the two time series are cointegrated, we will explore further using Vector Error Correction Model (VECM). 
    - If no cointegration relationship is found, we will consider lagged data using Vector AutoRegression (VAR) Model. 
         
2. Secondly, we will build what we call a cointegrated Bollinger band using the linearly combined data.

 We used 2-year 15-second dataset between January 1, 2019, and December 31, 2020 of the SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) ETF and the Chicago Board of Exchange (CBOE) Volatility (VIX) Index from Refinitiv DataScope.

## 2. Data Analysis
We did our data analysis using `Python 3.8.1`  on `Jupter Notebook`
 
 * **Required packages** 
      Main Python packages are: 
        - `numpy`
        - `pandas`
        - `matplotlib`
        - `sklearn`
        - `statsmodels`
        - `pycaret` 
   
## 3. GitHub Files
* Analysis_xxxxxx.ipynb
    - Jupyter Notebook with python codes used in our data analysis.
   
## 4. Conclusion
We consider linear process models using the VIX Index as a proxy for market sentiment, to predict the movement of the SPY ETF prices. The coefficients on the SPY lags of the ARIMA(2,1,1) model turn out to be statistically insignificant with the addition of the VIX Index, even though this particular model performs better out-of sample than the ARIMA(2,1,1) model without the VIX Index. Furthermore, the one-step forward forecasts generated by a VAR(1) model performs better than an ARIMA(2,1,1) model. However, in the context of algorithmic trading strategy, it counters the many signals generated by Bollinger Bands and MACD. The one-step forward GARCH(1,1) volatilities do not help in the context of algorithmic trading strategies either, perhaps because of the limited predictive capability of the VAR(1) model.
